[Docs] Rewrite run methods and deployment docs (#945)
mckinsey/vizro: vizro-core/docs/pages/user-guides/deploy.md

### Dockerfile

A [Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/build/concepts/dockerfile/) contains instructions to build a [container image](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/docker-concepts/the-basics/what-is-an-image/). You can think of it as a way to give in a single file all the instructions that your hosting provider needs to deploy your app. This includes both the [installation of dependencies](#dependencies) and [starting the app with Gunicorn](#gunicorn). A Dockerfile is used by many hosting providers, including Hugging Face and Ploomber Cloud.

Here is an annotated [example Dockerfile](https://huggingface.co/spaces/vizro/demo-first-dashboard/blob/main/Dockerfile) that we use in our simple Hugging Face demo. It demonstrates the key Dockerfile instructions needed to deploy Vizro and should serve as a good starting point for your own Dockerfile.

```dockerfile
FROM ghcr.io/astral-sh/uv:python3.12-bookworm-slim  # (1)!

WORKDIR /app

COPY requirements.txt .
RUN uv pip install --system -r requirements.txt
COPY . .

> # (2)!

Reviewer: I wanted to put these on the end of the lines rather than on new lines of their own but unfortunately it's not possible without using mkdocs insiders.

# How to deploy your dashboard to production

Typically when you create a dashboard, there are two distinct stages:

1. Development. This is when you build your app. You make frequent changes to your code and want to see how the dashboard looks after each change. You may or may not want to make the dashboard accessible to other people.

> 1. Production. When you complete development of your app, you _deploy_ it to production. The dashboard should be accessible to other people.

Author: I left feedback on this for `run.md`

> This page describes methods to run your dashboard _in production_. If your dashboard is still in development then you should read our [guide to development](run.md).

Author: ```suggestion
This page describes methods to run your dashboard _in production_. If your dashboard is still in development, read our [guide to development](run.md).
```

Vizro is built on top of [Dash](https://dash.plotly.com/), which itself uses [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/). Most of our guidance on how to run a Vizro app in development or production is very similar to guidance on Dash and Flask.

> ??? note

Author: ```suggestion
!!! note
```

Author: As commented for `run.md`

    There are many possible workflows depending on your requirements. The above describes a simple workflow that applies to many people but is not suitable for everyone. For example:

    - If you are the only user of your app then the process is often simpler since you might never want to deploy to production.
    - If there are multiple people involved with development then you will need some way to coordinate code changes, such as a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/) or [Hugging Face Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces).

>     - You might want to make your app accessible to only some people using _authentication_.

Author: I left a small edit about this on `run.md`

    - You might want to update your dashboard after it has been put into production. There is then a cycle of repeated development and deployment.
    - There might be additional stages or _environments_ for Quality Assurance (QA) to test that the app works correctly before it is deployed.

## Overview

When developing your dashboard you typically run it _locally_ (on your own computer) using the Flask development server. When you deploy to production, this is no longer suitable. Instead, you need a solution that can handle multiple users in a stable, secure and efficient way.

> Vizro is designed to be a production-ready framework, which means that the dashboard you created during development is immediately suitable for deployment to production with minimal changes. Under the hood, Vizro benefits from [Dash's stateless architecture](https://dash.plotly.com/sharing-data-between-callbacks#dash-is-stateless), which makes it simple to scale your app to thousands of concurrent users.

Author: ```suggestion
Vizro is a production-ready framework, which means that the dashboard created during development is immediately suitable for deployment to production with minimal changes. Under the hood, Vizro uses [Dash's stateless architecture](https://dash.plotly.com/sharing-data-between-callbacks#dash-is-stateless), designed for scaling to thousands of concurrent users.
```

Author: Minor changes but I felt this verged on slightly promotional so I made a couple of changes. It's OK as it is, so ignore me if you want!

> In general, there is only one code change that is required. The last of your `app.py` file should look like `Vizro().build(dashboard).run()`. This should be replaced with:

Author: ```suggestion
In general, there is only one code change that is required for deployment. The last of your `app.py` file should look like `Vizro().build(dashboard).run()`. This should be replaced with:
```

```python
app = Vizro().build(dashboard)  # (1)!

if __name__ == "__main__":  # (2)!
    app.run()
```

1. The Vizro `app` object needs to be exposed so that the app can be started in production.

> 1. Enable the same app to be [run in development](run.md#development-server) with the Flask development server. This code is only executed when you run `python app.py` and does not run in production.

Author: ```suggestion
1. This code is only executed when you run `python app.py` and does not run in production. It's there to enable you to [run the same app in development](run.md#development-server) using the Flask development server. 
```

That's it! Your app is now suitable for deployment to production.

!!! warning "Extra step if you use dynamic data cache"
    If your dashboard uses [dynamic data](data.md#dynamic-data) that can be refreshed while the dashboard is running then you should [configure your data manager cache](data.md#configure-cache) to use a backend that supports multiple processes.

Now that your `app.py` file is ready, you need to choose a _hosting provider_. There are many services out there with different offerings, but for most users we recommend two in particular: [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/) and [Ploomber Cloud](https://docs.cloud.ploomber.io/). These both have a free tier with the possibility of paying more for extras, and they are both quick and easy to get started with. We give step-by-step instructions on how to use each:

> - [Instructions for Hugging Face](#hugging-face)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Deploy a Vizro dashboard to Hugging Face](#hugging-face)
```

Author: I've changed the link text as it'll be what people search Google to find out, so this makes it a bit easier for indexing and thus for them to find it.

> - [Instructions for Ploomber Cloud](#ploomber-cloud)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Deploy a Vizro dashboard to Ploomber Cloud](#ploomber-cloud)
```

> Enterprise users should look at our [guidance on Dash Enterprise](#dash-enterprise). We also discuss the [general principles](#general-principles) for deploying a Vizro app that apply to all hosting providers.

Author: ```suggestion
Enterprise users should look at our guidance for [deploying Vizro dashboards on Dash Enterprise](#dash-enterprise). We also discuss the [general principles](#general-principles) for deploying a Vizro app that apply to all hosting providers.
```

> ## Hugging Face

Author: ```suggestion
## Deploy a Vizro dashboard to Hugging Face
```

[Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/) is a platform for machine learning models, datasets and demos. Within Hugging Face, the [Spaces feature](https://huggingface.co/spaces/launch) offers a one click experience to deploy a Vizro dashboard for free. This is the easiest way to deploy a Vizro app if you do not mind your app's code being public or shared within your [Hugging Face organization](https://huggingface.co/organizations). Paid plans include features such as authentication, developer mode for debugging, user analytics and more powerful computing resources.

> The best way to get started with Vizro on Hugging Face is to copy an existing Vizro dashboard and then modify it to add your own app. Vizro maintains an [official gallery of example dashboards](https://huggingface.co/collections/vizro/vizro-official-gallery-66697d414646eeac61eae6de) and a gallery of example dashboards made by the community. Any of these example dashboards can be used as a template for your app. In Hugging Face terminology, a Vizro dashboard lives in a _Space_, and you can copy a dashboard by [duplicating the Space](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/spaces-overview#duplicating-a-space).

Author: Can we not offer just a template so people don't have to modify anything?

Reviewer 2: We do, it follow a bit below. I will try to make that clearer :)

Reviewer 2: Tried to make it clearer

> <!-- TODO: add (https://huggingface.co/collections/vizro/community-demos-666987c8e9f56afc7bc1d0fc) -->

Author: NOTE THIS NEEDS DOING

If this is your first Vizro deployment then we recommend using our ["first dashboard" example](https://huggingface.co/spaces/vizro/demo-first-dashboard). This is a minimal example that is designed to make it as simple as possible to get started on Hugging Face. You can create your own Vizro deployment based on this template as follows:

1. [Sign up for a Hugging Face account](https://huggingface.co).
1. Copy our example Hugging Face dashboard by duplicating our ["first dashboard" example Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/vizro/demo-first-dashboard). To do so, click the following button: [![Duplicate this Space](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/badges/resolve/main/duplicate-this-space-md.svg)](https://huggingface.co/spaces/vizro/demo-first-dashboard?duplicate=true). This should open a window with the following form: ![Form to duplicate Space](../../assets/user_guides/deploy/hugging_face_duplicate_this_space.png)

> 1. You do not need to alter any of the default options but if you would like to then refer to the [Hugging Face documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/spaces-overview#duplicating-a-space) for an explanation of each.

Author: ```suggestion
1. You do not need to alter any of the default options but the [Hugging Face documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/spaces-overview#duplicating-a-space) gives an explanation of each.
```

> 1. Click "Duplicate Space" to start building your Hugging Face Space. This takes around 10 seconds, and when complete you should see the following dashboard running. ![Running dashboard](../../assets/user_guides/deploy/hugging_face_space.png)

Author: ```suggestion
1. Click "Duplicate Space" to build your Hugging Face Space. This takes around 10 seconds, and when complete you should see the following dashboard running. ![Running dashboard](../../assets/user_guides/deploy/hugging_face_space.png)
```

> <!-- TODO: add https://huggingface.co/join -->

Author: ```suggestion
<!-- TODO: add https://huggingface.co/join -->
```

Author: ALSO THIS

In addition to `app.py`, your Space contains a few other files:

- `.gitattributes` is used by [Git Large File Storage (LFS)](https://git-lfs.com/) and is only relevant if you have files larger than 10MB. See the [Hugging Face documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/repositories-getting-started) for more information.
- `Dockerfile` gives instructions to configure your app's environment and start the app. See our [section on Dockerfiles](#dockerfile) for more information.
- `README.md` configures your Space, for example its title, description and licence. See the [Hugging Face documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/spaces-config-reference) for more information.
- `requirements.txt` gives your Python package dependencies. See our [section on dependencies](#dependencies) for more information.

!!! tip
    If you'd like to show your Vizro app off to the community then you can add it to our Vizro dashboard community gallery.

> <!-- TODO: add (https://huggingface.co/collections/vizro/community-demos-666987c8e9f56afc7bc1d0fc) -->

Author: AND THIS

On Hugging Face, Vizro apps are hosted on Docker Spaces. Hugging Face has thorough documentation on [Spaces in general](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/spaces-overview) and specifically on [Docker Spaces](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/spaces-sdks-docker-first-demo). There are many features that go beyond simply hosting a Vizro app. For example, you can [make a collection](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/collections) of multiple Spaces, collaborate on your code using [pull requests and discussions](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/repositories-pull-requests-discussions), or create an [organization](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/en/organizations) to group accounts and Spaces together.

> 

Reviewer 2: I agree. We also do not do it for Ploomber, and the HF section is already long. Let me remove

> ## Ploomber Cloud

Author: ```suggestion
## Deploy a Vizro dashboard to Ploomber Cloud
```

The [Ploomber Cloud documentation](https://docs.cloud.ploomber.io/en/latest/apps/vizro.html) contains detailed instructions on how to deploy Vizro on Ploomber Cloud. In short, the process is as follows:

1. [Sign up for a Ploomber Cloud account](https://platform.ploomber.io/).
1. Modify the last line of your `app.py` to [expose the Vizro `app` object](#overview) as `app = Vizro().build(dashboard)`.
1. Create a `requirements.txt` file to give your Python package dependencies. This should include `vizro` and `gunicorn`. See our [section on dependencies](#dependencies) for more information.
1. Create a `Dockerfile` by copying the [example given in the Ploomber Cloud documentation](https://docs.cloud.ploomber.io/en/latest/apps/vizro.html#application-setup). See our [section on Dockerfiles](#dockerfile) for more information.
1. Compress your `app.py`, `requirements.txt` and `Dockerfile` into a single zip file.
1. Upload the zip file to Ploomber Cloud.

> <!-- TODO: https://platform.ploomber.io/register -->

Author: TO DO

> ## Dash Enterprise

Author: ```suggestion
## Deploying Vizro dashboards on Dash Enterprise
```

Since a Vizro app is a Dash app under the hood, they can be deployed to [Dash Enterprise](https://plotly.com/dash/) and accessed in the same way as other Dash apps.

Dash Enterprise helps to deploy and scale production-grade data apps and integrate them with IT infrastructure such as authentication and VPC services. Vizro users may find it suitable for deployment, rapid development environments, and authentication.

Vizro is compatible with the following functionality within Dash Enterprise:

- [App Portal](https://dash.plotly.com/dash-enterprise/portal?de-version=5.5)
- [App Manager](https://plotly.com/dash/app-manager/)
- [Dash App Workspaces](https://plotly.com/dash/workspaces/)

> - [App logs and viewer statistics](https://dash.plotly.com/dash-enterprise/logs?de-version=5.5)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [App logs and viewer statistics](https://dash.plotly.com/dash-enterprise/logs)
```
we should probably take out version so it stays current and goes to the newest version first time you visit

- [Centralized data app management](https://plotly.com/dash/centralized-data-app-management/)
- [CI/CD](https://plotly.com/dash/continuous-integration/)
- [Redis](https://plotly.com/dash/big-data-for-python/)
- [Dash Enterprise Authentication](https://plotly.com/dash/authentication/)

> Vizro is not currently compatible with the [Dashboard Engine](https://plotly.com/dash/snapshot-engine/) or [Dash Design Kit](https://plotly.com/dash/design-kit/), and cannot produce static reports accessed via the [Snapshot Engine](https://plotly.com/dash/snapshot-engine/).

Reviewer 4: @LiamConnors could you give this a read to see if you have anything you think is worth adding?

> Vizro is not currently compatible with the [Dashboard Engine](https://plotly.com/dash/snapshot-engine/) or [Dash Design Kit](https://plotly.com/dash/design-kit/), and cannot produce static reports accessed via the [Snapshot Engine](https://plotly.com/dash/snapshot-engine/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Vizro is not currently compatible with the [Dashboard Engine](https://plotly.com/dash/dashboard-engine/) or [Dash Design Kit](https://plotly.com/dash/design-kit/), and cannot produce static reports accessed via the [Snapshot Engine](https://plotly.com/dash/snapshot-engine/).
```

> ## General principles

Author: ```suggestion
## General principles when deploying Vizro dashboards
```

1. Modify the last line of your `app.py` to [expose the Vizro `app` object](#overview) as `app = Vizro().build(dashboard)`.
1. Create a `requirements.txt` file to give your Python package dependencies. This should include `vizro` and `gunicorn`. See the [section on dependencies](#dependencies) for more information.
1. Upload your `app.py` and `requirements.txt` files, for example by drag and drop, your hosting provider's CLI, or `git push`.
1. Specify on your hosting provider how to handle your app:
    - Before the app is started, the environment needs to be built. Python dependencies should be installed with `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
    - To start the app, you should use the command `gunicorn app:app --workers 4`. See the [section on Gunicorn](#gunicorn) for more information.
    - Optional: set [advanced configuration](#advanced-configuration), for example to serve assets using a Content Delivery Network (CDN).
1. Optional: configure further settings on your hosting provider, for example to make your dashboard private or to configure computing resources.

> The method for providing instructions on how to handle your app varies between hosting providers. For example, on Render there are [build and deploy commands](https://render.com/docs/deploys); on Heroku there is a [Procfile](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/procfile). One common cross-platform way to configure an environment is using a Dockerfile. This is used by both Hugging Face and Ploomber Cloud among others. See the [section on Dockerfile](#dockerfile) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method for providing instructions on how to handle your app varies between hosting providers. For example, on Render there are [build and deploy commands](https://render.com/docs/deploys); on Heroku and Dash Enterprise there is a [Procfile](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/procfile). One common cross-platform way to configure an environment is using a Dockerfile. This is used by both Hugging Face and Ploomber Cloud among others. See the [section on Dockerfile](#dockerfile) for more information.
```

Here is an annotated [example Dockerfile](https://huggingface.co/spaces/vizro/demo-first-dashboard/blob/main/Dockerfile) that we use in our simple Hugging Face demo. It demonstrates the key Dockerfile instructions needed to deploy Vizro and should serve as a good starting point for your own Dockerfile.

```dockerfile
FROM ghcr.io/astral-sh/uv:python3.12-bookworm-slim  # (1)!

WORKDIR /app

COPY requirements.txt .
RUN uv pip install --system -r requirements.txt
COPY . .
# (2)!

ENTRYPOINT ["gunicorn", "app:app", "--workers", "4", "--bind", "0.0.0.0:7860"]
# (3)!
```

1. Use a Docker image that [includes `uv` pre-installed](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/integration/docker/).
1. Install the [Python dependencies](#dependencies) as [described in the `uv` documentation](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/integration/docker/#installing-requirements). The app files are copied into the container after installing dependencies to optimise Docker's [build cache](https://docs.docker.com/build/cache/).
1. Run the Vizro app using [Gunicorn](#gunicorn).

> ### Advanced configuration

Author: ```suggestion
### Advanced Dockerfile configuration
```

Author: ? Maybe make it clear what the configuration is of?

Reviewer 2: I think if you read this, you probably know why you would want to change a Dockerfile
